## Syllabus

### **cs6501: Risks and Benefits of Generative AI and LLMs**
University of Virginia, Fall 2023

**Meetings:** Mondays and Wednesdays, 9:30-10:45am in Rice 340
 
**Course Objective.** This seminar will focus on understanding the
  potential risks and benefits of advances in Generative Artificial
  Intelligence and Large Language Models. This is a research-focused
  seminar that will expect students to read papers and lead
  discussions.

**Expected Background:** Students are not required to have prior
background in machine learing or security, but will be expected to
learn whatever background they need on these topics mostly on their
own. The seminar is open to ambitious undergraduate students and
research-focused graduate students with interests in machine learning,
privacy, fairness, security, and related topics. Instructor permission
is required to enroll, and decisions about enrollment will be based on
what you are able to bring to the seminar.

**Coordinator:** [David Evans](http://www.cs.virginia.edu/evans)
  (evans@virginia.edu). My
  [office](http://www.cs.virginia.edu/evans/office) is Rice 507.

## Course Expectations

Students in the seminar are expected to:

- Lead discussions on interesting topics during the class meetings.
  For each week, there will be a team of students charged with
  preparing a topic and leading the discussion, and another team
  charged with writing a blog post about the class. Students
  responsible for posting the blog summary will be different from the
  ones charged with leading the topic discussion, but should work
  closely with the leaders on the posted write-up. 

- Participate actively in class meetings.  This means being prepared to
  contribute by doing the assigned preparation (which will typically
  involve reading a few research papers, but may involve other things
  also) and thinking about the materials deeply to be able to
  contribute well to discussions. Part of this preparation will
  involve responding in writing to questions posed before the class.

## Communications

**Course Website:**
  [_https://llmrisks.github.io/_](https://llmrisks.github.io/).  All
  course materials will be posted on the course website, and students
  will be expected to provide materials to add to this site. 

## Honor and Responsibility

We believe strongly in the value of a _community of trust_, and expect
all of the students in this class to contribute to strenghtening and
enhancing that community.  The course will be better for everyone if
everyone can assume everyone else is trustworthy. The course staff
starts with the assumption that all students at the university deserve
to be trusted.

In this course, we will be exploring both technical topics and
personal and societal ones, some of which touch on individual's deeply
held values and beliefs. We expect students to be able to have intense
discussions about these topics, but do to so in a way that is mutually
respectful and that approaches views that are different from your own
with curiosity and interest rather than with dismissiveness and
disdain.

We may also learn about and explore some vulnerabilities that could be
used to compromise deployed systems as well as potentially evil things
that can be done with current and future technologies.  **You are
trusted to behave respectfully, responsibily, and ethically.** You may
not attack any system without permission of its owners, and may not
use anything you learn in this class in ways that could be considered
harmful.  If you have any doubts about whether or not something you
want to do is ethical and legal, you should check with the course
instructor before proceeding.


## Generative AI Policy

The University does not yet have a policy on the use of Generative AI
tools, but SEAS recommends: "in Enginering we feel it is vital that
every instructor include in their syllabi an explicit policy on use of
generative AI in their class - in what ways is it allowed, in what
ways is it disallowed, and why."

The recommended language for UVA is:

"The ethical use of artificial intelligence technologies is strictly
at the discretion of the course’s professor and is otherwise
prohibited without the professor’s explicit written or verbal
permission. Artificial Intelligence tools may not be cited as authors,
though the tools used must be fully disclosed as a source along with
the capacity in which they were used. All outputs of artificial
intelligence, both explicitly used and as inspiration in one’s
submission, must be properly cited to its appropriate source."

The suprisingly sudden need for such policies is, of course, highly
relevant to the topic of this seminar!

Our policy for this seminar is to strongly encourage the use of
generative AI in any way you can find useful. You should document and
explain the tools you used, how you used them, and anything
interesting about the results and your interactions with the tools. I
do hope some groups will explore using LLMs to help in your writing
for the class, and maybe even in preparing your presentations. But, of
course, you should do this fully aware of the limitations of these
tools and the risks that they can lead you astray.

# Additional (Mostly Generic) Information

**Special Circumstances:** The University of Virginia strives to
  provide accessibility to all students. If you require an
  accommodation to fully access this course, please contact the
  Student Disability Access Center (SDAC) at (434) 243-5180 or
  `sdac@virginia.edu`. If you are unsure if you require an
  accommodation, or to learn more about their services, you may
  contact the SDAC at the number above or by visiting their website
  [https://studenthealth.virginia.edu/sdac](https://studenthealth.virginia.edu/sdac)

**Accommodations:** It is the University's long-standing policy and
  practice to reasonably accommodate students so that they do not
  experience an adverse academic consequence when serious personal
  issues conflict with academic requirements. Although University
  policy only recognizes religious accomodations, the course
  instructor believes they are many other valid reasons for
  accomdations that are at least as justifiable as ones for religious
  observance and consider family obligations, personal crises, travel
  to research conferences, and extraordinary opportunities to all be
  potentially valid reasons for accomodations.  Students who wish to
  request accommodations should submit their request to Prof. Evans as
  far in advance as possible.

If you have questions or concerns about the University policy on
  academic accommodations for religious observance or religious
  beliefs, visit
  [https://eocr.virginia.edu/accommodations-religious-observance](https://eocr.virginia.edu/accommodations-religious-observance)
  or contact the University's Office for Equal Opportunity and Civil
  Rights (EOCR) at `UVAEOCR@virginia.edu` or 434-924-3200.

**Safe Environment:** The University of Virginia is dedicated to
  providing a safe and equitable learning environment for all
  students. To that end, it is vital that you know two values that we
  and the University hold as critically important:
 
  1. Power-based personal violence will not be tolerated. 
  2. Everyone has a responsibility to do their part to maintain a safe community on grounds (including in virtual environments).

If you or someone you know has been affected by power-based personal
violence, more information can be found on the UVA Sexual Violence
website that describes reporting options and resources available:
[https://www.virginia.edu/sexualviolence](https://www.virginia.edu/sexualviolence).
   
As your professor and as a human, know that I care about you and your
well-being and stand ready to provide support and resources as much as
I can. As a faculty members, I am considered a responsible employee,
which means that we are required by University policy and federal law
to report what you tell us to the University's Title IX
Coordinator. The Title IX Coordinator's job is to ensure that the
reporting student receives the resources and support that they need,
while also reviewing the information presented to determine whether
further action is necessary to ensure survivor safety and the safety
of the University community. If you would rather keep this information
confidential, there are Confidential Employees you can talk to on
Grounds (see
[https://eocr.virginia.edu/chart-confidential-resources](https://eocr.virginia.edu/chart-confidential-resources)). The
worst possible situation would be for you or your friend to remain
silent when there are so many here willing and able to help.

**Well-being:** If you are feeling overwhelmed, stressed, or isolated,
there are many individuals here who are ready and wanting to help. The
Student Health Center offers Counseling and Psychological Services
(CAPS) for all UVA students. Call 434-243-5150 (or 434-972-7004 for
after hours and weekend crisis assistance) to get started and schedule
an appointment. If you prefer to speak anonymously and confidentially
over the phone, Madison House provides a HELP Line at any hour of any
day: 434-295-8255.






